Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How's your week been so far.
Brian Kern: I'm just still stand and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How's your wife doing
Brian Kern: She's good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's new since we last spoke
Brian Kern: Well, I gotta, I gotta prove front employment and
Brian Kern: I actually had they send me a debit card like I don't know how long ago was
Brian Kern: I didn't, I didn't know that I already had it.
Brian Kern: In the mail so
Brian Kern: Like one day I was looking on the site and saw that, like they paid me all this money over the past few weeks.
Brian Kern: And I was like,
Brian Kern: Yeah, and I got it in my head that I was like, it has to be here somewhere. I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was like
Brian Kern: Why would they be paying money to this debit card. It's like I have it or
Brian Kern: You know, because I've been checking the mail for like it wasn't coming
Brian Kern: And eventually I found the debit card and it had, like, way more money than I thought it was gonna be. That was going to be on the on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: During this time,
Brian Kern: Yeah, exactly.
Brian Kern: Nothing. Nothing else really
Brian Kern: You know, just
Brian Kern: staying home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Getting cabin fever yet.
Brian Kern: No, I mean,
Brian Kern: Yeah. Oh no, I'm just
Brian Kern: Yeah, I mean like before, all I was doing was going to work and come home. Anyway, so not really like been to stressful. Really, man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How this group.
Brian Kern: Was good
Brian Kern: Oh yeah, we talked about like somebody
Brian Kern: told me it was like talking about how they were like really trying to wean off of some blocks and because they felt bad about being on it.
Brian Kern: Are we talking about every single
Brian Kern: You know,
Brian Kern: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Some people are under the impression that I'm you know their addiction is big. There's so many different
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Beliefs associated with it. You know, there's the just withdraw have the willpower to stop.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm kind of like the A programs in April grams. And then there's this new research, which is medication assisted treatment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like the Suboxone programs. So, depends on what your take is and some people, you know, they come into the program, thinking that. Listen, I just want the support of medicine to get me to a place where I can
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Withdraw safely for a course of time over the actual opioids and hopefully I won't need this anymore. And some people come into the program with no plan to stop Suboxone they want to get out of state level goals.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And not be off the program because they feel like this represents sobriety and some people just don't think that the Suboxone program equates to sobriety. What's been your take on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The addiction man and what your responses to it.
Brian Kern: I mean my
Brian Kern: Take on it is. I mean, I don't plan on getting off at a time. So don't like us.
Brian Kern: Only because in the past when I've gotten off of it.
Brian Kern: Like eventually
Brian Kern: Relapse so like
Brian Kern: You know, right now. I mean, I feel like it's the safest thing to stay on.
Brian Kern: Maybe in the future that will gain right now. I definitely don't have any plans to get off at or mean off it or anything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: PTSD any anxiety triggers this week.
Brian Kern: No.
Brian Kern: All
Brian Kern: Good, yeah.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So tell me what's been working for you from the sessions that we've been having what what are some things that you've taken into consideration that you've been practicing and then also what are some additional things that you would like assistance with
Brian Kern: Well, I'm in
Brian Kern: I'm in early in life phone little bit
Brian Kern: Yeah, just doing this, doing the meetings at night. A meetings.
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Brian Kern: I have been trying to
Brian Kern: Be like more like
Brian Kern: A cognizant of, like, I'm feeling a certain time, you know, I
Mean
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you noticed anything in this new awareness and being more cognizant of your emotions. What have you noticed
Brian Kern: Not really. I haven't noticed, much
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, I've
Brian Kern: Been trying to try to be more cognizant of it.
Brian Kern: Oh,
Brian Kern: My gosh, I
Brian Kern: Don't really feel
Brian Kern: Much, much of a thing really
Brian Kern: You know, maybe like just
Brian Kern: Like all of your legal not yeah I'm not feeling anxious or
Brian Kern: Only. No, but I do try to like have like a certain awareness.
Brian Kern: Around it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so just being more aware of when the anxieties presented itself. And when it's not.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is that what I'm hearing you say okay
Brian Kern: Yeah, pretty much.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, well, some of the things that I've been doing a treatment in the groups that I have is, like you mentioned having that being aware of your, your patterns of thinking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And sometimes some thoughts are so automatic that we don't realize that they're actually cognitive distortions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Meaning very irrational ways of thinking and these irrational ways of thinking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Can attribute to anxiety or relax. So what I've been doing, is teaching the different cognitive distortions, the clients and then having them track just that specific one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because there's several cognitive distortion on distortions. There's black and white thinking there's the jumping to conclusions there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just like the spiraling concept, there is you know that filtering where you you refuse to see the good so it's like they call it the filtered on perception. So I want to share a video with you that talks about the black and white thinking it's also
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Known as the all or nothing thinking so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going to play this video for you and let me know your thoughts. Before I get into the video do you find the videos helpful. I don't want you to feel that whenever we're in the session I play a video. Um, but just trying to figure out what you relate for that best
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well,
Brian Kern: Yeah, please. Oh.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I was asking you, do you like being in sessions where we're just engaging in the talk. Do you like also watching the videos and they haven't discussion that after that, what type of teachings. Do you prefer.
Brian Kern: I mean either work doesn't matter like I like learning new stuff so videos or cool or not.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. So, no, no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Brian Kern: Morning I tripped on the skateboard. And by mistake. I dropped my sweater in the same call the water was running. And I could tell it was going to be a terrible, horrible middle good very bad day.
Have you ever seen this book, Alexander and the terrible, horrible no good. Very bad day. Well, it's a perfect example of black and white thinking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what is black and white thinking black and white thinking is a pattern of thought characterized by thinking in the extremes. Everything is always the worst day ever. For
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The very best day ever. You know, we think of things in their absolutes. It's a polarized way of thinking.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it messes us up because it makes our emotions, more extreme than they need to be black and white thinking is also known as all or nothing thinking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Interferes with our ability to have healthy emotions and relationships signs that you might be using black and white thinking is, if you use words like always, never
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Terrible ruined furious or you try to make things out to be worse than they were like, I mean, you might have actually had a bad day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But it was the worst day ever. Or some things might have gone wrong. And you might say nothing when. Right, right. So we're taking something and we're making it out to be.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: More exaggerated than it already was now why does black and white thinking mess us up. Well, the way we think affects our emotions and if we're thinking in an exaggerated manner.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Than our emotions are going to swing rapidly from one extreme to the other people with anxiety or depression tends to think in extremes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we can combat anxiety, depression and other mental illnesses by having more realistic honest or moderate thinking patterns.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Black and white thinking makes the problem worse than it already was black and white thinking creates helplessness. If my husband is a complete jerk the biggest jerk in the whole world.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then makes no sense for me to try and change myself or improve myself because nothing is ever going to work.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: See that black and white thinking in there and how that's going to contribute to problems in my relationships. Another reason black and white thinking messes us up is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It invites defensiveness, and others. So if you say to someone, you never do the dishes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're going to feel attacked, because that's not quite true. You're exaggerating how bad they are surely might miss doing the dishes and they might have forgotten to do this year. So they might have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Intentionally not done the dishes that day or multiple days, but they never exaggerates how bad they are puts people on the defensive and it just invites arguing and debating.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And fighting the more extreme the statement, the more likely the other person is to feel attacked if black and white thinking is so awful, then why don't we do it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now I work under the assumption that everything we do serve some kind of function right even if it's dysfunctional in the long run we do it for some sort of reason.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And black and white thinking does serve a function. It just doesn't work very well. So black and white thinking helps us feel like we're the victim of our circumstances.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which is kind of comforting. Right. Isn't it nice to think, well, poor me you know everything's out to get me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And black and white thinking excuses us from having to do the difficult work of taking action and changing ourselves so if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My job is the worst job ever or my boss is the meanest guy ever did excuses us in our mind from having to take responsibility for our part of the problem.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And working hard to fix it black and white thinking helps protect us from feeling guilty or accountable for our own actions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And this might feel more comfortable, but in the long run, creates more problems, black and white thinking also protects us from feeling vulnerable.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So if we're thinking and extremes, like everything is awful. Then we have more excuse to just kind of hide in bed, you know, pull the covers over our head and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you know wallow instead of actually experiencing those tender feelings that we might be having like hurt or sadness. Perhaps we're feeling guilty or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, uncertain about the future black and white thinking is also very simple. It gets rid of the complex nuanced reality that we have to face every day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it gets it gets rid of that complexity that we experience when we're interacting with another person because every human being is a combination of good and bad, but if we just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know label them as being completely bad, then we don't have to manage a lot of that complexity that's involved in in relationships.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now, well, these are some of the functions of black and white thinking and it does you know work in the short term to relieve us of a little bit of that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: discomfort in the long run. It's going to make us pretty unhappy if we consistently use this pattern of thinking in our lives, the more extreme our thinking, the more likely we are to be depressed. So saying things like, I'm a terrible person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or wow she has it all together. She is such a saint or no one's going to ever like me. No one wants to be my friend. These are simplistic statements.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That feed those negative emotions and create that feeling of helplessness, that is associated with depression, the reality of life is there is no perfect job. The perfect marriage, no perfect person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And by telling ourselves that someone is either perfect or awful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're creating more problems for ourselves, then there needs to be if we want to improve our emotional control. We need to challenge our black and white thinking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how do we fix it if we catch yourself engaging in some of these thinking patterns. What do we do about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, number one, start to notice the signs of all or nothing thinking so look out for words like we talked about always never any type of exaggeration.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What I like to call horrible ization or trying to make someone else out to be perfect number to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Challenge your thoughts. Just because you're thinking, it doesn't mean it's really true. So look for a more truthful and more moderate
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Way of thinking about each situation or person so that takes us right to number three which is we need to replace those thoughts with a more moderate view of the situation. So back to the dishes situation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Instead of saying you never do the dishes you big jerk say something like, okay, it bothers me when you don't do the dishes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I know that I also miss my chores. Sometimes, how can we work together to solve this number for an essential part of resolving black and white thinking means we have to increase our capacity to experience ambiguity.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We need to increase our tolerance of complex situations, our ability to hold onto a little bit of discomfort, while we while we wrestle with a situation or a problem. Remember, life is beautiful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Difficult complicated joyful painful. In order for us to be able to fully live and and appreciate and enjoy life. We need to embrace all the complexity that is involved with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If we want to get healthier. It's not about just feeling better. It's about getting better at feeling so consider a couple of these questions. Can someone love you and still be insensitive. Sometimes, can you be basically intelligent and still do something dumb.
Brian Kern: Can experience be really hard, but still be beautiful, in some way, remember one of the main reasons people get depressed is because of how they perceive reality.
Brian Kern: When we change the way we look at things, the things we look at change when we're able to be more flexible and intentional in how we think.
Brian Kern: That depression is going to be more likely to lift and we'll start to get feeling better, depression, often centers on one incessant thought
Brian Kern: Like no one likes me when we replace those negative thoughts with healthy thinking
Brian Kern: Then the depression has nothing to feed on changing the way we think is really quite difficult. We might not even notice that we're doing it. So try to reach out for some help.
Brian Kern: Ask others for their perspective on how you talk about yourself, or how you talk about situations.
Brian Kern: Watch yourself for signs of this negative in black and white thinking or work with someone like a mental health professional.
Brian Kern: To change the way you think, by reducing or eliminating black and white thinking we can have much healthier lives. So I hope this was helpful. Thanks for watching, and take care
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The video
Brian Kern: Is definitely like
Brian Kern: I feel like
Brian Kern: I mean like
Brian Kern: Like, I don't think I necessarily think like that. But I do think like God are kind of like
Brian Kern: Early describe it like
Brian Kern: I guess sometimes I'm definitely guilty as they get
Brian Kern: More like yeah I think sometimes, uh, you know,
Brian Kern: It's like
Brian Kern: It's not really like all like really think think it but it's like just kind of how all like
Brian Kern: You know, like, I'll kind of like exaggerate.
Brian Kern: Stops myself, sort of like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me an example.
Brian Kern: A good example.
Brian Kern: Like
Brian Kern: Earlier I was watching this like true crime thing okay like I get mad I this is gonna sound really stupid but I get. I get mad.
Brian Kern: When like
Brian Kern: Okay. Well, I guess I'll just say that was Washington, so like this, this woman.
Brian Kern: Like got convicted of like
Brian Kern: neg like something like negligent homicide.
Brian Kern: Man Like she literally got
Brian Kern: Got hot like she got like
Brian Kern: Program. She got probation for like 16 months. Right. And like I always get pissed when like people do like
Brian Kern: Like when people were convicted of like some really horrible shit and they get less time off for the nation than I did for some petty drug shit, you know, so I was
Like the thing
Brian Kern: You know, like he likes literally like, people always get like last time that I did for like really terrible thing.
Brian Kern: I guess that's like example like came to my mind.
Brian Kern: When I was watching it, you know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Brian Kern: I like it doesn't piss me off, honestly.
Brian Kern: Yeah, so it's like, things like that. I don't know, like
Brian Kern: I don't like i don't think i think like all the time.
Brian Kern: Like, I think it's just surely bad
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And see, that's the complexities of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: cognitive distortions, is that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We all the different types that I show you, you or discuss with you, you'll see there's certain time to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because I am also guilty of doing black and white thinking every man, woman, as well, because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like was mentioned in discuss this actually serve a function for us some time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To move either while and whatever extent or experience that we have, or to feel as though
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know that it's not fair, this injustice, because you probably already had this underlying feeling of injustice, when you were serve that term for
Brian Kern: Your crime, you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: probably already have that initially what I did is not bit. This is fine, you know, and so anytime
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know this plays out. It may resurface again because this has been an underlying theme for you. It's probably like people that have sick children you know or have some type of chronic illness, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because that is in summer, but for them, they may get frustrated when they have finds that their kids really even catch a cold.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, but their child is in and out of the hospital and so they may have that trigger to like you, like, you know, how come all these children are born healthy, but I have a sickly child.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It serves as a function because it makes you feel like there's some type of injustice and this isn't fair.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And sometimes we find comfort in finding the injustices. We feel righteous in a sense that we've we've been serving in justice and how do we do, right. So, it serves as a function
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Lots of people do it. Some people use black or white thinking in arguments with friends or with spouses and then you always you never like the example she gave
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the video so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You'll see different things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That resonate for you at different times.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The one that I find very interesting is the one that's jumping to conclusions and I'll put I'll play that the next session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But we watch the video you think, Oh, this is so far fetched that this person would think that one simple text. So once a full response for me to this so that when you really reflect, you think, well, how many times
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How I proceed someone's behavior as a direct result of me. You know that, oh, this person is doing this because of me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so with that, with these cognitive distortions. It's this internal dialogue that we have with ourselves. Whenever there's some type of conflict or whenever there's an underlying trigger that night rise up, but I like that is not there because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I could see how black or white thinking will arise when you feel like there's been a certain injustice or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything else that stood out for you in the video.
Brian Kern: Nothing I can think of.
Really
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So one thing that I took note of is how she says that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We have that. Like I said, the black and white thinking serves as a function for us. So sometimes we have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Devotional habits.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That serves as a function for us. So can you identify a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Dysfunctional habits that you may have that actually serves as a function for you.
Brian Kern: Um,
Brian Kern: I mean one like when I was getting high. And I was definitely like a dysfunctional.
Brian Kern: Habit that definitely served a
Purpose.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was that function for you.
Brian Kern: Just to basically relieve stress and anxiety. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, you're facing of coffee.
Was addiction.
Brian Kern: Oh no, I'd have to think of like other ones.
Brian Kern: Not really sure.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But that was a very good one. And a lot of people don't identify the significance of how the addiction really was that coffee. And the reason why it. Some people may think really does that really, but some people don't realize that they're trying to cope from and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's very difficult for them to identify the triggers that they have to their addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the significance in the reason why it's important to know that like exponentially in the last session is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Once you have the awareness of this is a trigger for me. Now you can put some things in place to avoid it. So that's why x i checked in earlier and said, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you felt anxious I was the PTSD and you said, I've been actually pretty good. But what I'm curious to know is what was different. How come he didn't present itself this week.
Brian Kern: I don't know, I guess.
Brian Kern: I've just been like
Brian Kern: More
Brian Kern: Like I guess for last sort of, I don't know. I mean, I've just been like even busier like having way less idle time
Brian Kern: You know, I mean,
Brian Kern: I've been like, you know, journaling my phone.
Brian Kern: Off. That's like a big new one. I guess I think that's kind of hoping
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you think, by any chance, you'd be more aware of what causes you to be ancients when the anxiety visits. Do you think that lends any credence to why I invited me to insulate itself this week.
Brian Kern: Yeah. Yeah, I think so.
Brian Kern: I think this is like being more like that is like helping. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the reason why I ask is because the way our body functions. Right. I always preach about the awareness. Awareness. Awareness.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And sometimes we don't understand the significance. But the awareness is actually allowing your brain to have new rewire
Brian Kern: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The interesting thing about the brain is that it developed from the bottom to top out from top to bottom. So as infants.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: First part of my brain that develop was just like that since we need a hunger, I need to pee. I need to pull those things developed connected with them off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But as we transition into adults. There's other things functions and layers that develop. And the last part of the brain to develop is actually the top the prefrontal cortex.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that part of the brain does the work in helping us to have a rational brain and helping us to really stop reflect and think of the best outcome versus responding to our initial in the reaction. So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Having this awareness.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For since you're playing that whenever anxiety presents itself, rather than going below road which is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Ok I sent it in my alarm is going to process it through them at the love, which is the Renaissance fight, flight, freeze.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then immediately just send it down to the hypothalamus and when you saw those stress hormones. That's the low road.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But when you have the awareness. It forces, your brain to take a hike in that I will takes a little longer in the processing, but a significant because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When your body has a sentence through the llamas instead of going to the amygdala and then stress hormones, it goes to the amygdala in the middle of says this time. Okay, I sent a threat for let me send it. Let me send it to the hippocampus and allow it to process it categorize this
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is this a real threat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was a perceived threat and then from there was the hippocampus process and then puts in different categories is since it then to the prefrontal cortex to say, all right, Coach, Brian, figure out best outcome in a situation
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So with your PTSD and trauma. Do I make the logo is always sending you different signals, there's a threat threat, how we respond because people that haven't experienced trauma when they have a threat response. Once the threat is gone, they calm down your body goes back to all
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The work that way.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's constantly in that fight or flight that the middle is likely to stay on is no point in me to turn it off because we're always on the threats and we always want to be prepared. You always want to protect
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But now we're taking the higher Road. The higher road represents that awareness that you can the Mykola says maybe turn off for a little bit. Now, because it seems that claim is always in distress.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And Becky saying
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I've been a little more calm lately will relax staying busy. I'm noticing some good things working out me getting money now and unemployment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Money, all of them even expected is waiting for me those things and signals to the brain to tell them Abdullah, it's okay. Brian is saying you could turn off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Having that awareness mind is so key and I will challenge you that once you have the awareness to get curious as to why am I so call it feels good. What did I do right
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because then you continue to do those things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that next week, something happens, you don't tell send the signal to the amygdala turn all the way on again because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I don't, I don't want to go the highway.
Brian Kern: Does that, yeah.
Brian Kern: Yeah, it makes sense. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in this journey of sobriety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's always going to be this curiosity that piece itself is just an ongoing journey of curiosity about learning about don't ever get bored so over get overwhelmed with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: being committed like excited
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To learn the ways of checking in with yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even in most days of business, take a pause when you feel like, Man, my big dilemma is on and there's no turning it off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You also want to be curious, what is going on, why
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Time when you felt like your amygdala was always on it was enough. What was going on for you at that time.
Brian Kern: Something like that and Gail
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Part in your amygdala. That's the big fear of big dogs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can be walking down the street and someone struggling their teeth, I immediately think, be rationally those key dangling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Early adult color.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there's a big Pitbull coming after me and I can just be in my driveway.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I hear it and it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But remember what I said about the Columbus and the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The sound.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The sound rather I live in my little goes back to when Jessica was young and there will be songs that were chasing their idols colors.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So my door that as the way to protect Jessica is whenever she hears that sound to turn on the middle so she feels a threat, and she goes into flight because I'm I'm running.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm running.
Brian Kern: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: very embarrassing story. I was leaving work and some lady. She was in a parking lot and she's ready to her car. And she had a key, though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I heard it and turn back, one must again for a look like I was going to find the show notes so scared. And I had to apologize and say, Oh, I'm so sorry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I automatically assume those a big dog coming after me and I was like,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the city. Like where would a dog just be running the Michaela has no rational innovation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you have to do the work to identify what those sounds are
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So now more aware when I'm walking now that if I
Hear this
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To Matt me think big dog but to just looking look around and explore my environment to really assess for safety, but before having that awareness and the connection of the sound and never looked around, I just immediately one or two big dog go
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To you identified that when you're making a little was turned on. It was these was the homelessness setting. It was in prison, was there ever a time where it wasn't those type of threatening surroundings. It was home work that you felt like you're making a little wrong.
Brian Kern: Really, I mean, it was like always on. Yeah, I mean, definitely, like what I'm like walking around and
Brian Kern: Things like that, like, you know, again,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's more site is there sounds. So I think it sounds like when we think about synthesis more site for you. Are there any sounds a touch and smell.
Brian Kern: Cuz I mean when the machete attack happened, I was asleep. You know, I kind of like woke up.
Brian Kern: And I think it was all happening so
Brian Kern: Nothing like nothing. I'm like, aware of at least. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So good in the imagery resources that I taught you last session or two sessions ago would be real well for you the next time that you're in an environment that you sent through your site can be possibly threatening.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To go to that imagery resource of you end up with a grain Jeep Cherokee
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, yeah, I'm just imagining that the whole lecture Mandela know that this isn't a threatening place mean you still want to have the awareness and be cautious, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you feel that the major is finding again those signals to your brain must take the low road instead of the higher realm.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you go to that image in place so that you can ground yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any other thoughts about about
Brian Kern: Yeah, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What about the emotion chart. And we talked about did you give any thought about that, about the emotion. He felt throughout the week.
Brian Kern: Oh yeah me. I looked at it, you know, it's just I think sometimes it's hard for me like really identify you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What makes it challenging
Brian Kern: This is like hard to
Brian Kern: Like really just, I guess, but like
Brian Kern: Like, my head is like kind of like just
Brian Kern: Just like I'm either anxious or on hot
You know, I mean,
Brian Kern: Like, that's like just the easiest thing.
Brian Kern: So,
Brian Kern: When it comes to like other
Brian Kern: Promotions I guess is
Brian Kern: Really
Brian Kern: Know you know i mean
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We could practice it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Other emotions aside from anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you, how are you feeling before the session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then you know you need to scroll down
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I said,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's practice exploiting those emotions in this session. So how are you feeling. Before that. Before our session. How are you feeling today.
Brian Kern: I'm call
Brian Kern: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: came up during the session.
Brian Kern: No.
Brian Kern: Yes, don't call
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any of these motions you felt this week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Boy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Said you were busy this week.
Brian Kern: I'll still get bored. Though sometimes, you know, I'm definitely sleepy.
Brian Kern: Worn out, you know,
Brian Kern: I think like, I'll just, you know, like, like when I'm feeling this stuff. I just kind of like
Brian Kern: You know I don't know I just
Brian Kern: You know, just like I'll be more like I'll be like, aware that I'm feeling it is just like more like
Brian Kern: Also, does not exist. You know, I mean obviously tall.
Brian Kern: Or yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this boy.
Brian Kern: Like I guess like really like a lot of times. Like, I don't think of like thinking my head. I don't really think that like
Brian Kern: I only think of hungry is an emotion.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's board and let us in a state of calmness for you because it's anything except for anxiety.
Brian Kern: Pretty much, yeah.
Brian Kern: Yeah, definitely.
Brian Kern: More unlike
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything that's excited you this week.
Brian Kern: Yeah, when I
Brian Kern: When I found that debit card with the money I was definitely excited
Brian Kern: And surprised you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything that made you feel annoyed this week.
Brian Kern: No, nothing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Down here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you connect with this week.
Alright.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, we'll wrap up our session. Any thoughts or questions.
Brian Kern: Probably take another look at that emotions throughout the week.
Brian Kern: Just kind of thinking about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Think about that. And then think about any times where you feel like your amygdala is on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if it is, think about like your senses. What is what is causing my midterm to be on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so I will see you again next week, Wednesday, at six.
Brian Kern: Cool.
Brian Kern: All right. Thank you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're Welcome. Have a good night.